DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE 
INVENTION 
disclosure, 
Abbreviation: Throughout this 
trade- 
marked term Bluetooth® is used to denote the IEEE 802.15 
standard for short-range wireless communications. However 
this term may also be read more broadly as teaching other 
types of bidirectional short range wireless communication 
links as well. 
the 
SMS is the abbreviation of “Short Message Service”, a 
text messaging service frequently used for cell phones, 
smartphones and other devices. 
MMS is 
the abbreviation of “Multimedia Messaging 
Service”, an extension of SMS that is a standard way to send 
text and/or additional multimedia content (e.g. text, videos, 
pictures, ringtones etc.) between cell phones, smartphones, 
and other devices. 
Other message types may include email, Google hangout 
messages, other social network messages, and the like. 
FIG. 1 shows a schematic overview of the invention. 
In FIG. 1, a computerized system or computerized device 
(100) is shown. This computerized system will be generally 
comprised of at least one processor, memory, software (such 
as operating system software), at 
least one method of 
connectivity, such as a long-range communications interface 
(often a wireless interface such as a 3G, 4G, or 5G cellular 
telephone and/or Wi-Fi transceiver), peripheral interface 
devices (such as 
a short range wireless Bluetooth trans- 
ceiver, wire jacks for hard wired peripherals, and the like), 
a Graphical User 
and usually a user interface, such as 
Interface (GUI) that is capable of both displaying messages, 
and receiving user input. Examples of such computerized 
systems can include smartphones (e.g. Apple iPhones, 
Android smartphones, and the like), tablet computers, per- 
sonal computers, or even embedded computers, such as 
computers embedded into vehicles and other devices. 
The computerized system (100) is generally configured to 
be able to connect (e.g. exchange information with) to one 
or more peripheral devices, here exemplified by a 
car- 
mounted Bluetooth speakerphone (102), as well as a Blu- 
etooth headset (104) typically worn by the user while 
exercising. Each device, such as a peripheral device will 
generally either have its own identification code (e.g. 
peripheral device identification code) or other way by which 
the computerized system (100) can identify when that par- 
ticular peripheral is attached to the system (100).
US 11,516,643 Bl 
The computerized system (100) will also be running the 
invention’s automatic response software. If the system (100) 
is a smartphone or a tablet computer, this automatic response 
software will often be loaded into the memory of system 
(100) as an “app”. 
Among other functions, which will be discussed, the 
invention’s software will 
in device 
memory, an association between particular peripherals and 
particular auto reply messages. This memory stored periph- 
eral—reply message association is symbolized by table 
(106). 
typically maintain, 
is 
associated 
Table (106) shows, for example, that one peripheral, such 
as $sAtlz$ (here assume that this is headset peripheral 104), 
which 
message 
“Exercising. . 
. talk later”. By contrast, another car mounted 
is 
peripheral, such as GT-19300 (here assume that this 
peripheral 102) is associated with the auto reply message 
“Please call me—Don’t text me—I"m driving”. 
reply 
with 
auto 
the 
The invention software is configured so that, in the event 
that say the car Bluetooth speakerphone peripheral (102), is 
connected (108) to the computer system (100), then the 
inventions software will detect this fact. As a result, when 
an outside contact (110) attempts to communicate with (100) 
by, for example, sending an SMS text message (112), the 
software will use the fact that the car Bluetooth speaker- 
phone (102) is connected (108) to system (100) to deduce, 
using association (106), that the appropriate auto reply 
message to use is 
the driving specific automatic reply 
message “Please call me—don’t text me—I'm driving” 
(114). The software will thus send out the above driving 
related automatic reply message. 
By contrast, if instead the headset peripheral (104), which 
the user primarily uses during jogging is connected (109) to 
(100), then the system software (106) will determine that a 
different peripheral is connected. Here, assuming that the 
user has appropriately configured the system, the software 
will use association (106) to instead determine that the 
exercising type automatic reply message “Exercising. . 
. talk 
later” should be used to automatically reply or otherwise 
manage to outside contact (100). 
As will be discussed, this basic peripheral controlled auto 
response method can be modified in various ways. For 
example, in the event that multiple peripherals are connected 
at the same time, then some sort of priority scheme needs to 
be used in order to determine which peripheral should be 
used to generate the automatic response. Many different 
types of priority schemes are possible. In some embodi- 
ments, the user may be given configuration options that 
allow total control over this priority selection process. In 
other embodiments, at least as a default priority, often the 
last peripheral connected will be given the highest priority, 
and the automatic response associated with the last con- 
nected peripheral will be selected, until the user specifies 
otherwise and/or until the last connected peripheral is dis- 
connected. 
Similarly this basic peripheral controlled auto response 
scheme may, in some embodiments, apply to all incoming 
messages regardless of who the contact is (e.g. regardless of 
which person or organization calls). In other embodiments, 
at least certain contacts (e.g. boss, wife, friends, parents) or 
other dataset comprising a plurality of dataset items may be 
given their own automatic response messages that can, again 
according to choice of override scheme, override or not 
override the peripheral associated automatic reply messages. 
In general, any priority scheme for handling all permu- 
tations of peripherals and contacts is contemplated, and the 
software may be configured to allow the user total control 
40 
55 
over this priority scheme. In other embodiments, at least as 
a default to be used in the absence of explicit user priority 
instructions, certain more specific priority schemes may be 
used, and these will be discussed in more detail as follows 
below. 
Note that although, as previously discussed, short range 
wireless connections to peripherals, such as the Bluetooth 
wireless protocol, are frequently used throughout this speci- 
fication as examples of a connection scheme between a 
computerized system (100) and various peripherals, these 
examples are not intended to be limiting. Indeed any con- 
nection scheme that enables the system (100) to exchange 
information or signals with the peripherals is considered to 
be a valid connection scheme according to the invention. 
Thus, for example, even an analog earphone, plugged into an 
analog speaker jack, may be considered to be a peripheral 
that can be used to control an auto reply response message 
so long as the computerized system (100) can detect when 
that particular peripheral is connected, and when it is not. 
The same is true of connecting a vehicle with a smartphone 
or device dock to the computerized system (100) via a 
physical data connection. 
The following figures and discussions focus on one par- 
ticular embodiment of the invention, here in the form of a 
prototype app intended for a smartphone such as an Apple 
iOS smartphone or Android smartphone. Again, these dis- 
cussions are not intended to be limiting. 
FIG. 2A shows a screenshot of one embodiment of the 
invention’s peripheral configuration menu. In this example, 
the various peripherals are called “devices”, and these 
various devices all connect to the computerized system (here 
an Android Smartphone) via wireless Bluetooth™ connec- 
tions. 
FIG. 2B shows another embodiment of the inventions 
peripheral configuration menu, here showing a wide range 
of alternative Bluetooth peripherals that may be used to 
control the system’s auto answer response messages. Here 
the auto-answer messages assigned to each peripheral are 
not shown. 
Here, the list shows all currently connected Bluetooth 
as other Bluetooth devices that were 
devices, 
checked and previously connected, but which are not cur- 
rently connected. 
well 
as 
In an alternative embodiment, peripherals that connect by 
other methods, such as hardwire connections (e.g. via an 
analog audio connector jack) may also be shown on this 
screen. 
FIG. 2B shows a screenshot of another embodiment of the 
invention’s peripheral configuration menu, here showing a 
wider range of alternative Bluetooth peripherals that may be 
used to control the system’s auto answer response messages. 
Here the auto-answer messages assigned to each peripheral 
are not shown. 
FIG. 2C shows a screenshot of an Android version of the 
product, in which the system enables the user to configure 
which devices, when connected, will trigger an automatic 
response to incoming messages or other interactions, such as 
from an item on a dataset list. The screen also shows the 
various default messages that will be triggered when a 
particular peripheral is connected. Note that in this example, 
the user habitually uses his wired headset when he is on his 
motor cycle, habitually uses his Bluetooth Music Receiver 
when he is skiing, and habitually uses his automobile’s 
(Toyota Prius) built in Bluetooth hands free receiver when 
he is driving. 
FIG. 3 shows a screenshot of one embodiment of the 
invention’s user interface screen where the user can edit the
US 11,516,643 Bl 
link to 
auto answer message that the user wishes to 
particular peripheral device or contact. System default auto 
reply messages may also be shown on this interface screen. 
In this scheme, when a user first informs the system that 
a new peripheral device is to be used for auto answering 
purposes, the system will then also provide a device message 
screen (shown in FIG. 3) to inform the computerized system 
which default auto answer message to use when that par- 
ticular peripheral device is connected. 
In this particular embodiment, where the computerized 
system is a smartphone with a touch sensitive display screen, 
to change a particular device auto answer message, the user 
may click (e.g. touch) the device’s name. When the device 
next connects to the computerized system, the system can 
then set the current auto answer message to be the same as 
that particular device’s auto answer message. That is, the 
system will use whatever message the user had previously 
entered into the “messages” screen in FIG. 3. 
In this particular embodiment, which is oriented to auto 
responding to SMS text messages, to fit within SMS mes- 
sage length, and also to promote the system (at least for a 
free version) the user entered automatic answer message is 
limited to a total length of 136 characters, and 24 characters 
of this total length are further reserved for final non-editable 
advertising tagline in 
at least the freeware form of the 
invention. This tagline may optionally be removed or 
replaced with a user edited version in a paid version. 
The user may also be given the option to further link the 
automatic response messages to other devices or other 
contacts. This may be done by configuring the system to 
provide a separate contact screen for this purpose, or by 
configuring the system to allow the user to alter the listing 
of these links below the edit box in the present screen. The 
user may also remove a previously entered automatic 
response message by blanking out the message by back- 
spacing, using a delete button, or other method. 
In some embodiments, because a particular automatic 
response message may be linked to more than one peripheral 
or more than one contact, it will be useful to remind the user 
of this 
a particular 
peripheral-linked automatic response. This sort of warning 
is shown in FIG. 4. 
fact when the user decides to 
edit 
FIG. 4 shows a screenshot of a warning message that may 
be generated when the user attempts to edit an automatic 
reply message that has been associated with multiple periph- 
erals, multiple contacts or a combination of contacts and/or 
one or more peripheral devices. Thus when opening and 
editing a peripheral linked automatic response message, if 
that particular peripheral automatic response message is also 
linked to any other peripheral or human contact, the system 
will show a popup alert warning the user to the effect that 
“This message is linked to one or more devices or contacts. 
it will affect all linked devices and contacts.” 
If you edit it, 
In this embodiment, after the user overrides the above 
(optional) warning, the use can then set the default auto 
answer message to be used when this particular peripheral is 
connected to the computerized system. Thus, for example, 
the user can configure the system so that if the user’s 
smartphone (computerized system) detects that it 
is con- 
nected to the user’s Bluetooth speaker phone (which is 
located in the user’s automobile), the default auto answer 
message can be of the type: “Please don’t text me, I'm 
driving”. 
The system can also be configured to be flexible, so that 
a previously set automatic answer message can be overrid- 
den by the user, such as by going to a messages screen (see 
FIG. 5A) and checking or entering in a different message 
automatic reply message. Alternatively, the user can also use 
a suitable control screen, such as the FIG. 5A messages 
screen, to go back and edit the message configuration screen 
such as shown in FIG. 3. 
FIG. 5A shows a screenshot of an automated response 
message display screen that allows the user to easily pick 
and choose which automated response messages to set as the 
present default automated response message. Here the cur- 
rently active default automatic response message is checked, 
and only one default has been presently entered into the 
other automatic 
system. However the 
responses messages via the “Add a New Message” com- 
mand at the bottom of the screen. Once the user has added 
an additional message, the user can then select it (e.g. touch 
the appropriate touchscreen control) to make it active (i.e. 
set as an alternative current default message). 
enter 
user 
can 
among 
entered 
various 
previously 
FIG. 5B shows a more populated automated message 
response display screen that allows the user to configure 
which, 
automatic 
response messages, the user wants a particular device (here 
the user’s Toyota Prius’ built in Bluetooth hands free speak- 
erphone) to use as the default automatic response message. 
FIG. 6 shows a screenshot of the user’s contact list. In 
some embodiments, each individual (and usually human or 
business) contact may also be given contact specific cus- 
tomized automated response message that in turn can be 
configured to vary according to which particular peripheral 
is connected to the computerized device. In other embodi- 
ments, the system can be configured so that the type of 
connected peripheral determines if the automated response 
message will be transmitted or not. 
As FIG. 6 shows, in some embodiments the system may 
list all contacts in the user’s address book, and optionally 
select certain contacts to add to a “do not auto respond to 
texts from this contact” blacklist. In some embodiments, the 
user may also select (e.g. click on) a particular contact to set 
an override automatic response message that should be used 
to respond to that particular contact. Such contact specific 
override responses may then, for example, override any 
peripheral specific default automatic response that would be 
used otherwise. 
As an example, an employee may have set an informal 
and peripheral specific “Don’t bug me Bro’ I'm driving” 
automatic text response message that will normally operate 
whenever the employee’s smartphone detects 
the 
the employee’s 
employee’s smartphone is connected to 
automobile’s Bluetooth speakerphone. 
that 
However if the employee may also set various contact 
specific overrides to this so that if the employee’s smart- 
phone detects from the contact list that it is the employee’s 
boss or parents that are texting while the employee’s smart- 
phone is connected to the automobile, the system will then 
select a more formal text response such as: “Presently 
driving—will respond quickly when safe”. 
Thus in this scheme, a contact list specific automatic 
response may be set to always override a generic peripheral 
specific automatic response. Other prioritization schemes 
may also be used. 
Note that although in 
this example, the contact list 
selected automatic response will override the peripheral 
device specific automatic response, the peripheral specific 
automatic response trigger may be set to still be operative. 
That is, the system may be configured so that a particular 
contact list selected automatic response will only be selected 
if a contact (e.g. text message) is received from that par- 
ticular contact AND the system also detects that the par- 
ticular peripheral associated with generating a “driving”
US 11,516,643 Bl 
trigger is present. Alternatively the system can be configured 
so that a response is only sent if a peripheral is connected, 
or if manual mode (manual override) is active. 
Thus in general, the system may use the presence or 
absence of specific peripherals as 
a trigger to transmit 
certain pre-selected automatic responses (or not). Which 
pre-selected automatic responses are then transmitted in 
response to that trigger may then depend on which contact 
generated the incoming message (e.g. activated a trigger) 
and then on the user set logic as to which automatic response 
to send out (e.g. the contact specific automatic response for 
that trigger, or a default response for that trigger) to use. 
There is thus a potential matrix of contact and peripheral 
automatic response messages for all combinations of periph- 
erals and contacts, as is shown in Tables 1A and 1B below: 
10 
Click-on upgrade notices. Here, for example, if the app is 
being distributed as different free versions, as well as 
premium versions with more functions, the user can use 
an upgrade option to jump to another app screen that 
describes various extra features that may be provided 
by a premium version of the app. 
A showing of various default system settings, such as 
first line of the app’s current 
showing at least the 
default automatic response message. 
10 
Use examples: 
In the following examples, assume that the computerized 
system is a smartphone such as an Apple iPhone or Android 
smartphone, the user has downloaded and installed an app 
that implements the invention’s methods, and that the user 
is then using the system to auto respond to incoming Short 
TABLE 1A 
Embodiment 1 
Peripheral 1 (car) 
Peripheral 2 (headset) 
No peripheral default 
Contact A (boss) 
Contact B (friend) 
Contact C (ex-girlfriend) 
All others (default) 
“Will respond soon” “Working hard boss” 
“Later dude” 
“bug off’ 
“Driving...” 
“Call me bro” 
“bug off 
“Busy...” 
“Call me later” 
“Sleeping or dead” 
“bug off” 
“Can’t respond now” 
TABLE 1B 
Embodiment 2 
Peripheral 1 (car) 
Peripheral 2 (headset) 
No peripheral default 
Contact A (boss) 
Contact B (friend) 
Contact C (ex-girlfriend) 
All others (default) 
“Working hard boss™ “Working hard boss™ 
“Call me bro” 
“bug off” 
“Driving...” 
“Call me bro” 
“bug off” 
“Busy...” 
“Working hard boss” 
“Call me bro” 
“bug off” 
“Can’t respond now” 
In some embodiments, peripherals with no pre-set custom 
messages will be given a default message. 
Alternatively, the matrix of automatic responses messages 
shown in table 1A or 1B may be set to give no automatic 
response at all if no peripherals are connected. 
FIG. 7 shows how, in some embodiments, the user can, for 
each individual contact, edit a particular customized auto- 
mated response message that will be used according to 
which particular peripheral is connected to the computerized 
device. 
In some embodiments, after selecting a particular indi- 
vidual or organization from the contact list, the user can then 
edit the automatic response to be selected for that particular 
contact. This is shown in FIG. 7, which shows how the user 
can set the message to be used when responding to texts 
from this contact. As before, the system may generate an 
optional warning message if the particular message being 
edited is also linked to other peripherals or contacts. 
In addition to the various app screens shown here, an app 
or other software according to the invention may have other 
user interface screens as well. For example, such an app or 
other software may also have a home screen or general 
configuration screen. This home or configuration screen may 
have, for example, various additional displays and functions 
such as: 
A checkbox/on-off control to turn the app on (where it will 
usually then run in the background) or off. 
Click-on headings to allow the user to quickly jump to 
other app screens with corresponding names or func- 
tionality that matches the heading. 
Message Service (SMS) messages (text messages). Thus the 
invention is being implemented in the form of an app 
running on a smartphone (e.g. as software running on the 
smartphone’s processor or processors). Here the invention 
will be referred to as the “application” or “app” for short. 
specific 
example; the computerized system (smartphone) may be 
configured to respond to an incoming SMS message as 
follows: 
Using Bluetooth connected peripherals as 
Case 1: application (app) is not active—nothing (no auto 
response) happens. 
5 a
Case 2: application is active, but none of the selected 
Bluetooth (BT) peripheral devices is 
in range—nothing 
happens (alternatively a default no-peripheral auto response 
may be provided). 
Case 3: application is active and one or more of the 
selected Bluetooth peripheral devices is 
in range and/or 
connected, and the SMS sender is also listed as a contact in 
the smartphone’s directory with a contact specific response 
message assigned—then the system will auto reply with the 
user assigned contact specific message. 
Case 4: application is active and one or more of the 
selected BT devices is in range and/or connected and the 
a contact with no response 
SMS sender is unknown or 
message assigned—then the system will auto reply with 
current active peripheral specific message. 
In this context, the “current active message” may be 
defined as follows: 
Initially, upon setup, the first auto reply message entered 
“message 1”) can be initially selected by 
by the user (e.g— 
US 11,516,643 B1 
11 
the system to be the current active message (at least until the 
user changes this), and the text of this first message can be 
the text of the current active message. 
As the user adds one or more additional custom messages 
(and optionally checks off these messages), whatever auto 
reply message the user selects will be used by the system as 
the current active message. 
If a 
selected peripheral, such as 
a Bluetooth device 
peripheral comes into range (i.e. connects with) of the 
computerized device, and if this particular peripheral does 
not have a default message set yet, then the fact that the 
peripheral is now communicating with the computerized 
device will have no effect on the auto reply message. In this 
case the current active auto reply message will remain 
unchanged from whatever the last active message was. 
are 
the 
connected, 
invention’s 
Alternatively, the system may be configured so that if no 
peripherals 
automatic 
response software may be bypassed, and instead the com- 
puterized system’s generic default automatic reply message 
(assuming that one has been previously specified) may be 
provided instead. However if a selected peripheral with a 
previously specified default auto reply message is connected 
to the computerized device, then the peripheral specific auto 
reply message then becomes the current active message. 
Similarly, if a second (or third) selected peripheral with a 
previously specified auto reply message is connected to the 
computerized device, it may be convenient (as previously 
discussed) to configure the invention software so that the 
auto reply associated with the last connected peripheral is 
chosen as the current active message. Alternatively, and also 
as previously discussed, the invention may allow the user to 
configure a peripheral priority order in which the auto reply 
message associated with the peripheral with the highest 
priority is automatically chosen as the current active mes- 
sage. 
To change the current active auto reply messages, the user 
may also view a message configuration screen, such as FIG. 
5, and select a different auto reply message to be the current 
active auto reply message. 
In some “last connected peripheral device controls” type 
embodiments, a peripheral, upon connection with the com- 
puterized device (e.g. smartphone) will set the active auto 
reply message upon connection (i.e. coming within range if 
a Bluetooth connected peripheral). How- 
the peripheral is 
of peripheral 
the 
ever in these embodiments, it 
connection itself that determines the auto reply. That is, the 
continued connection of previously connected peripherals 
may not control the status of the active auto reply message, 
because the auto reply associated with the last connected 
peripheral dominates. 
act 
is 
Even here, of course, the user can always change the 
active auto reply message manually by simply bringing up 
the list of messages (see FIG. 5) and setting another message 
as the currently active auto-reply message. 
Pseudo Code Examples 
In the following examples, certain aspects of the function 
of smartphone app software that implements certain embodi- 
ments of the invention are shown using pseudo code. Note 
that these pseudo code examples primarily focus on the 
selection of the current response message, rather than on 
details of the response mode activation process. 
// $message should persist between sessions and reboots 
global Smessage = "Please call me - don’t text me - I'm driving - Sent 
from <device’s phone number> by Text Deflector”; // init on app 
12 
-continued 
install only 
device::on_connect( ) 
if ($self->linked message) 
$message = $self->linked_message; 
device::on_disconnect( ) 
if ($self->linked_message and Smessage == $self->linked_message) 
// Fall back to global default message; 
$message = Smessages->default; 
 0 
controller: messages_screen: on_check( ) 
// This is the main Messages screen (not the device or contact select 
variant) 
if (!$self->device and ! $self->contact) 
$message = $self->messages->selected; 
// This is the Messages screen for a specific Contact 
elseif ($self->contact) 
$self->contact->linked message = $self->messages->selected; 
// This is the Messages screen for a specific Device 
elseif ($self->device) 
$self->device->linked_message = $self->messages->selected; 
sms::on_receive( ) 
if ($self->sender->linked_message) 
message) 
$self->reply($self->sender->linked 
else 
S$self->reply($message); 
5 a
Subsequent Publication and Making Available to 
the 
Public 
On Jul. 20, 2013, the inventors, under the name of “Suite 
B Media Inc.” published a first version of the invention, 
entitled Text Deflector as an Android app on the Google Play 
store. They also publicized the invention on their Twitter 
feed at: https://twitter.com/textdeflector 
On Sep. 1, 2013, the inventors published a YouTube video 
describing the Text Deflector system in operation as “Text 
https:// 
Deflector—The Automated Autoresponder” 
www.youtube.com/watch?v=hucE17dFv]c 
at: 
On Nov. 26, 2013, the inventors published a description 
of the improved version of the invention at http://www.bike- 
land.org/news-story.php?newsID=74286. 
This press release stated: 
“Announcing Text 
(www.textdeflector- 
Deflector 2.0 
com), the smart phone app designed to provide a safer 
driving environment for everyone. Text Deflector is 
a free 
app (with no ads) that’s designed to take the impulse to 
respond to texts away from drivers so they can focus on the 
task at hand. . 
. driving safely. Text Deflector’s patent 
pending technology works by sensing and linking to your 
in-car handsfree device (Bluetooth or wired headset) and 
automatically responds for you without any user input 
whatsoever to any incoming texts. Text Deflector notifies the 
sender that the driver is unavailable and optionally requests 
that the sender call instead. 
Text Deflector 2.0 not only responds to SMS (text) 
messages while you're driving, now it will also respond to 
MMS (picture and video) messages so you don’t get dis- 
tracted by any pictures sent to you when you’re traveling 
down the Interstate.” 
“This is an app that should come pre-installed in every 
phone for the safety of the driving community,” says Suite 
B Media’s director of marketing, Loralee Fultz (Hajdu). 
“Text Deflector is simple to use—just launch the app and 
assign it to any hands-free device and it’s ready to go.” 
The newer 2.0 version of the application was described as 
65 
having the new features: 
Responds to both SMS & MMS 
System Tray Icon shows when App is active
US 11,516,643 Bl 
13 
Flood Control Filter—stops responding to repeated texts 
Ignores Unknown Numbers and new Check All Contacts 
option 
Maintains a record of auto responses 
All New Interface/L.ook 
Help and FAQ 
On Dec. 
17, 
2013, the inventors then published an 
upgraded 2.0 version of Text Deflector on the Google play 
store. 
As described on the Google play store, Test Deflector 2.0 
was described as: 
“Text Deflector 2.0 automatically responds to your 
incoming texts (both SMS and MMS) while you're driving 
and does it safely, without any user input. Text Deflector 
works by sensing and linking to your in-car handsfree device 
(Bluetooth or wired headset) and automatically responds to 
any incoming texts, notifying the sender that the driver is 
unavailable. No data is collected, GPS services are not used, 
and there’s no additional drain on your battery.” 
The inventors further described the system as being 
a service 
completely automatic, not locking the user to 
provider or carrier, and sensing your peripheral devices 
automatically with no manual input. Other advantages listed 
were that the system was not GPS based or motion based, 
maintains user privacy, and allows users to import contacts 
for customization. Additional advantages are that the system 
does not cause additional battery drain. 
A premium (paid for) version of Text Deflector also 
allows users to provide custom response messages, select 
multiple paired Bluetooth devices, assign a custom message 
to each Bluetooth device, and assign a custom message to 
each of the user’s contacts. The premium version also offers 
a manual mode that could be enabled via a timer (useful if 
a connected peripheral is not available). 
such as 
Preventing Distracted Driving 
In some embodiments, the invention may also be 
method of using device connection status, 
the 
connection status of a Bluetooth peripheral device, to reduce 
the risks of distracted driving (or other operation of any 
other type of equipment or method of conveyance) and 
perform other functions. Here, the invention operates by 
managing auto response replies to data on a computerized 
system, such as Smartphone incoming messages while the 
Smartphone’s user is driving. As usual, these Smartphones 
will generally be equipped with at 
least one computer 
processor, memory, display, cellular network transceiver, 
Bluetooth transceiver, Smartphone software (e.g. Android, 
108, Blackberry, Windows mobile software, and the like), as 
well as the invention’s automatic response software. 
In this embodiment, the peripheral will generally be a 
Bluetooth peripheral that is normally associated with the 
vehicle that the user is driving, or other equipment that the 
user is using. Although this Bluetooth peripheral may be a 
built-in automobile Bluetooth peripheral, other options are 
also possible. Here, for example, Bluetooth peripherals that 
are normally kept in the vehicle, such as visor mounted 
Bluetooth 
Bluetooth GPS 
devices, and the like may also be used. As is standard for 
Bluetooth peripherals, each Bluetooth device will have its 
own peripheral identification code. 
speakerphones, 
after-market 
Here, when the user enters the vehicle (or interacts with 
other equipment), the Smartphone (or other computerized 
system) will detect the presence of various vehicle (or other 
equipment) associated Bluetooth peripherals 
other 
devices), and form a connection, such as a wireless Blu- 
etooth connection with them. The invention’s software can 
then, for example, detect this connection, determine that a 
(or 
35 
60 
14 
vehicle associated Bluetooth device has been connected 
using the peripheral (or other device) identification code, 
and (for example) assign at least one Bluetooth vehicle 
associated peripheral linked automatic reply to this at least 
one Bluetooth peripheral identification code. This can be 
saved in memory. 
Thus, when a particular device is connected using a 
method of connectivity, the system may use replay software 
running on at least one processor, and at least one device 
identification code that is individually identifiable by the 
computerized system, to assign a plurality of device linked 
automatic replies to the at least one device identification 
code. 
Thus when a particular vehicle associated Bluetooth 
peripheral is wirelessly connected to the Smartphone, the 
invention’s automatic reply software will use the vehicle 
associated Bluetooth peripheral’s peripheral code to retrieve 
that particular automatic reply from memory. Thus when in 
response to incoming messages (e.g. SMS messages, MMS 
messages) the system can then retrieve the relevant auto- 
to automatically 
matic reply form memory, and use it 
respond to the particular incoming message. 
The system can also be configured to configure automatic 
replies to other types of incoming messages as well, such as 
incoming video messages (e.g. FaceTime calls, Google Duo 
calls, and the like). 
Silent operation: Although the following silent operation 
mode can be used for many different embodiments of the 
invention, it will often be desirable to further configure the 
automatic reply software to mute sounds produced by the 
Smartphone in response to various incoming messages and/ 
or the various automatic replies when the system determines 
that the user may be driving. 
Disabling autoresponse/ignoring certain incoming mes- 
sages: Some telecommunications service providers routinely 
provide “new voicemail received” notices. Although some 
services routinely label these “new voicemail received mes- 
sages” with the SMS identification or other identification of 
the caller that provided the voicemail, others do not. Other 
services, for example, label these “new voicemail received 
messages” with the service providers set ID. 
In order to have the invention distinguish between these 
two types of situations, it can be useful to further configure 
the system to check incoming messages versus a defined a 
text string or pattern. If this defined text string or pattern is 
detected, the system can be configured to automatically 
disable the system’s auto response functions for these types 
of incoming messages. So, for example, if the incoming 
message contains key terms such as “voicemail”, then the 
system can be instructed to ignore the incoming message, 
rather than to auto respond to the message. 
in 
apps, 
other 
embodiments, 
Use as a Standard Part of a Smartphone Operating System 
Although, in this disclosure, the various embodiments 
disclosed herein have been in the form of aftermarket, user 
installed, 
methods 
described herein may instead be implemented as part of the 
standard smartphone operating system. In this later embodi- 
ment, the invention’s features can thus be automatically 
provided for all smartphones using these operating systems. 
Because of the major burden that distracted driving places 
on society in the form of loss of life and injury, the invention 
could in turn help save lives if 
it was made a standard 
component of a smartphone OS. 
the 
Other Embodiments 
In other embodiments, the invention may be used in 
situations where using the presence of a connection to 
trigger a broader variety of different auto responses is
US 11,516,643 Bl 
15 
desired. For example, in other embodiments, the invention 
may be used in conjunction with a smartphone configured to 
detect a work office related WiFi system. Here the smart- 
phone can be configured so that detection of the work WiFi 
signal 
I'm at work” type auto 
response for either incoming calls or text messages. 
a “Can’t chat, 
triggers 
Trademarks: Bluetooth® is a registered trademark of the 
Bluetooth SIG, Inc. 
The invention claimed is: 
1. A handheld computerized device, comprising: 
at least one of each of a processor, memory, wireless 
cellular network transceiver, Bluetooth transceiver, and 
reply software; 
said handheld computerized device configured to wire- 
lessly receive an IEEE 802.15 standard Bluetooth 
peripheral device identification code from a Bluetooth 
peripheral device wirelessly connected to said hand- 
held computerized device; 
said handheld computerized device configured to analyze 
said IEEE 802.15 standard Bluetooth peripheral device 
identification code to determine that said Bluetooth 
peripheral device is 
a vehicle associated Bluetooth 
peripheral device; 
said handheld computerized device including at least one 
10 
 5 
automatic reply message stored in said memory; 
25 
said handheld computerized device and said reply soft- 
ware configured so that, while said vehicle associated 
Bluetooth peripheral device is connected to said hand- 
held computerized device, said reply software will 
respond to 
least one type of incoming cellular 
network message by sending an automatic reply mes- 
sage retrieved from said memory. 
at 
2. The device of claim 1, wherein said handheld comput- 
erized device and said reply software are configured to use 
an automatically selected and retrieved automatic reply 
message to automatically respond to said at least one type of 
incoming cellular network message. 
3. The device of claim 1, wherein said handheld comput- 
erized device further comprises a touch sensitive display 
screen, and said reply software are configured to use an 
automatically selected and retrieved automatic reply mes- 
sage, and user input on said touch sensitive display screen, 
to automatically respond to said at least one type of incom- 
ing cellular network message. 
4. The device of claim 1, wherein said reply software, and 
at least one said processor, are configured to assign at least 
one automatic reply message to 
least one Bluetooth 
peripheral device identification code, and store said at least 
one automatic reply message in said memory. 
at 
40 
5. The device of claim 1, wherein said handheld comput- 
erized device is any of a smartphone and tablet computer 
device. 
 0 
6. The device of claim 1, wherein said Bluetooth periph- 
eral device is embedded within a vehicle. 
7. The device of claim 1, wherein said at least one type of 
incoming cellular network message comprises any of an 
SMS message or an MMS message. 
8. The device of claim 1, wherein said handheld comput- 
erized device further comprises a graphical user interface, 
and said handheld computerized device is configured to 
allow a user to enter, using said graphical user interface, said 
at least one automatic reply message for storage in said 
memory. 
9. The device of claim 1 further configured to help prevent 
 0 
16 
10. The device of claim 9, wherein said vehicle associated 
Bluetooth peripheral device is embedded within a vehicle. 
11. The device of claim 9, wherein said handheld com- 
puterized device and said reply software are configured to 
use an automatically selected and retrieved automatic reply 
message to automatically respond to said at least one type of 
incoming cellular network message. 
12. The device of claim 1, wherein said handheld com- 
puterized device further comprises a touch sensitive display 
screen, and based on said determination, said handheld 
computerized device is configured to request and receive 
user input from said touch sensitive display screen before 
sending said automatic reply message. 
13. The device of claim 1, wherein said Bluetooth periph- 
eral device has previously been designated, by a user of said 
handheld computerized device, as a vehicle associated Blu- 
etooth peripheral device. 
14. The device of claim 13, wherein said handheld com- 
puterized device further comprises a graphical user inter- 
face, and said handheld computerized device is configured 
to receive user input from said graphical user interface 
designating a connected Bluetooth peripheral device as 
vehicle associated Bluetooth peripheral device. 
15. The device of claim 1, wherein said handheld com- 
puterized device said handheld computerized device further 
comprises a graphical user interface, and regardless of said 
determination, said handheld computerized device remains 
capable of receiving user input from said graphical user 
interface. 
16. The device of claim 1, wherein said device is config- 
ured to determine that an automatic reply message is war- 
ranted by forming a Bluetooth connection with said Blu- 
etooth peripheral device, obtaining said Bluetooth device’s 
IEEE 802.15 standard peripheral identification code, and 
comparing said Bluetooth device’s IEEE 802.15 standard 
peripheral identification code with at least one Bluetooth 
IEEE 802.15 standard peripheral identification code stored 
in said device’s memory. 
17. A handheld computerized device, comprising: 
at least one of each of a processor, memory, wireless 
cellular network transceiver, Bluetooth transceiver, and 
reply software; 
said handheld computerized device configured to wire- 
lessly receive an IEEE 802.15 standard Bluetooth 
peripheral device identification code from a Bluetooth 
peripheral device wirelessly connected to said hand- 
held computerized device; 
said handheld computerized device configured to deter- 
mine, based at least on said IEEE 802.15 standard 
Bluetooth peripheral device identification code, that 
use of an automatic reply message is warranted during 
times when connected to 
said Bluetooth peripheral 
device; 
said handheld computerized device including at least one 
automatic reply message stored in said memory; 
said handheld computerized device and said reply soft- 
ware configured so that, while said Bluetooth periph- 
eral device is connected to said handheld computerized 
device, said reply software will respond to at least one 
type of incoming cellular network message by sending 
an 
said 
memory; 
reply message retrieved 
automatic 
from 
distracted driving or vehicle operation; 
wherein said Bluetooth peripheral device is 
associated Bluetooth peripheral device. 
65 
a vehicle 
wherein said handheld computerized device further com- 
prises a touch sensitive display screen, and based on 
said determination, said handheld computerized device
US 11,516,643 B1 
17 
is configured to request and receive user input from 
said touch sensitive display screen before sending said 
automatic reply message. 
18. A handheld computerized device, comprising: 
at least one of each of a processor, memory, wireless 
cellular network transceiver, Bluetooth transceiver, and 
reply software; 
said handheld computerized device configured to wire- 
lessly receive an IEEE 802.15 standard Bluetooth 
peripheral device identification code from a Bluetooth 
peripheral device wirelessly connected to said hand- 
held computerized device; 
wherein said Bluetooth peripheral device has previously 
been designated, by a user of said handheld comput- 
erized device, as a vehicle associated Bluetooth periph- 
eral device; 
wherein said handheld computerized device further com- 
prises a graphical user interface, and said handheld 
computerized device is configured to receive user input 
from said graphical user interface designating a con- 
nected Bluetooth peripheral device as a vehicle asso- 
ciated Bluetooth peripheral device; 
18 
said handheld computerized device configured to deter- 
mine, based at least on said IEEE 802.15 standard 
Bluetooth peripheral device identification code, that 
use of an automatic reply message is warranted during 
times when connected to 
said Bluetooth peripheral 
device; 
said handheld computerized device including at least one 
automatic reply message stored in said memory; 
said handheld computerized device and said reply soft- 
ware configured so that, while said Bluetooth periph- 
eral device is connected to said handheld computerized 
device, said reply software will respond to at least one 
type of incoming cellular network message by sending 
an 
said 
memory. 
reply message retrieved 
automatic 
from 
19. The device of claim 1, wherein said device is config- 
ured to perform said determination by comparing said 
Bluetooth device’s IEEE 802.15 standard peripheral identi- 
fication code with at least one Bluetooth IEEE 802.15 
standard peripheral 
said 
identification 
device’s memory.
stored 
code 
in 
