DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE 
INVENTION 
disclosure, 
Abbreviation: Throughout this 
trade- 
marked term Bluetooth® is used to denote the IEEE 802.15 
standard for short-range wireless communications. How- 
ever, this term may also be read more broadly as teaching 
other types of bidirectional short range wireless communi- 
cation links as well. 
the 
SMS is the abbreviation of “Short Message Service”, a 
text messaging service frequently used for cell phones, 
smartphones, and other devices. 
MMS is 
the abbreviation of “Multimedia Messaging 
Service”, an extension of SMS that is a standard way to send 
text and/or additional multimedia content (e.g. text, videos, 
pictures, ringtones etc.) between cell phones, smartphones, 
and other devices. 
Other message types may include email, Google hangout 
messages, other social network messages, and the like. 
FIG. 1 shows a schematic overview of the invention. 
In FIG. 1, a computerized system or computerized device 
(100) is shown. This computerized system will be generally 
comprised of at least one processor, memory, software (such 
least one method of 
as operating system software), at 
connectivity, such as a long-range communications interface 
(often a wireless interface such as a 3G, 4G, or 5G cellular 
telephone and/or Wi-Fi transceiver), peripheral interface 
devices (such as 
a shorl range wireless Bluetooth trans- 
ceiver, wire jacks for hard wired peripherals, and the like), 
and usually a user interface, such as 
a Graphical User 
Interface (GUI) that is capable of both displaying messages, 
and receiving user input. Examples of such computerized 
systems can include smartphones (e.g. Apple iPhones, 
Android smartphones. and the like). tablet computers, per- 
sonal computers, or even embedded computers, such as 
computers embedded into vehicles and other devices. 
I'l(5. 
3 shows a screenshot of one embodiment of the 
invention’s user interface screen where the user can edit the 
auto answer message that the user wishes to link to 
particular peripheral device. 
‘The computerized system (100) is generally configured to 
he able to connect (e.g. exchange information with) to one 
car- 
or more peripheral devices, here exemplified by a 
mounted Bluetooth speakerphone (102), as well as a Blu-
US 10,841,248 B1 
etooth headset (104) typically worn by the user while 
exercising. Each device, such as a peripheral device will 
generally either have its own identification code (e.g. 
peripheral device identification code) or other way by which 
the computerized system (100) can identity when that par- 
ticular peripheral is attached to the system (100). 
In addition to identification codes, one example of another 
way by which the computerized system (100) can identify 
that a particular peripheral is attached to the system (100) is 
by use of metadata or other information that is normally 
“hidden” from the user, but which may either be provided by 
the peripheral, or allernatively may be associated with 
certain messages that the peripheral is transmitting to the 
computerized system (100). 
Use of Bluetooth profile information: This embodiment 
can make use of the fact that different types of Bluetooth 
devices often have different Bluetooth profiles. As an 
example, the Bluetooth Hands-Free Profile (HFP) is often 
used by automobile installed hands-free (HF) devices. The 
Bluetooth Hands-Free Profile 1.7, released Sep. 18, 2014. 
According to this protocol, after an initial connection is 
established. the Ilands-l'ree device (102) will typically 
transmit a list of supported features, such as supported HF 
indicators, to the audio gateway (AG—e.g. the user’s smart- 
phone 100). In the Hands-Free Profile 1.7, these are typically 
16-bit assigned numbers with standard Bluetooth assigned 
number definition that the invention can use to, for example, 
further identify that the peripheral device that the smart- 
phone (100) is connected to may be a device that is typically 
installed into automobiles. 
Thus here, for example, by making use of suitable Blu- 
etooth profile information, the process by which the inven- 
tion is configured to interact with previously unknown 
peripherals can be automated or at least semi-automated. 
This can potentially cut down on 
the number of user 
configuration screens needed to initially set up the invention, 
as well as allow the invention to work more seamlessly in 
novel situations, such as when the user may be driving for 
the first time in a rental car or otherwise using new periph- 
crals for the first time. 
Other Bluetooth profiles may also be used according to 
the invention. As another example, the presence of Blu- 
etooth devices giving messages according to the Bluetooth 
Health Device Profile (HDP) can help inform the system if 
the smartphone (100) or other device is presently being used 
a healthcare context. which might, therefore, require 
in 
suitable automatic replay messages. The Bluetooth Device 
ID profile (DIP) can also be used by the system to auto- 
matically or semi-automatically identify new Bluetooth 
peripherals, and the system can use information obtained 
from the profile to at least suggest a suitable operating mode, 
or even automatically configure itself for an operating mode 
appropriate for the DIP device. 
In some cases, in addition to having useful profile inlor- 
mation, cerlain peripherals may also transmil messages with 
encoded metadata that also gives information that the inven- 
tion can use for automated response purposes. Again using 
Bluetooth as an example, certain Bluetooth equipped periph- 
erals are able to receive metadata from the smartphone 
(100), or transmit metadata to the smartphone (100) that also 
gives useful information for auto response purposes. Thus in 
some embodiments, the invention may be configured to use 
metadata received from the peripheral for auto response 
control purposes. 
Generally, the computerized system (100) will also be 
running the invention’s automatic response software, some- 
times referred to as “reply software”. If the system (100) is 
a smartphone or a tablet computer, this automatic response 
software (reply software) will often be loaded into the 
memory of system (100) as 
be 
discussed, this “reply software” can alternatively be a part of 
the operating system as well. 
an “app”, but as 
will 
Among other functions, which will be discussed, the 
invention’s software will 
typically maintain, in device 
memory, an association hetween particular peripherals and 
particular auto reply messages. This memory stored periph- 
eral-reply message association is symbolized by table (106). 
Table (106) shows, for example, that one peripheral, such 
as $sAllz$ (here assume thal this is headset peripheral 104), 
which is associated with the auto reply message “Exercising 
... talk later”. By contrast, another car mounted peripheral, 
such as GT-19300 (here assume that this is peripheral 102) 
is associated with the auto reply message “Please call 
I'm driving”. 
me 
Don’t text me 
In examples outlined, the type of message providing a 
distraction might additionally arrive to the User in the form 
of a Social Media interaction, an incoming Video type 
message or any other types of communications to be devel- 
oped including chats and the like. 
The invention software is configured so that, in the event 
that, for example, the car Bluetooth speakerphone peripheral 
(102), is connected (108) to the computer system (100), then 
the invention’s software will detect this [ucl. As a result, 
when an outside contact (110) attempts to communicate with 
(100) by, for example, sending an SMS text message (112), 
the software will use the fact that the car Bluetooth speak- 
erphone (102) is connected (108) to system (100) to deduce, 
using association (106), that the appropriate auto reply 
message to use is 
the driving specific automatic reply 
message “Please call me—don’t text me—I'm driving” 
(114). The software will thus send out the above driving 
related automatic reply message. 
13y contrast, if instead the headset peripheral (104), which 
the user primarily uses during jogging is connected (109) to 
(100), then the system software (106) will determine that a 
different peripheral is connected. Here, assuming that the 
user has appropriately configured the system, the sollware 
the 
will use association (106) Lo instead determine that 
exercising type automatic reply message “Exercising . 
. talk 
later” should be used to automatically reply or otherwise 
manage the outside contact (100). As will be discussed, this 
basic peripheral controlled auto response method can be 
modified in various ways. For example, in the event that 
multiple peripherals are connected at the same time, then 
sonte sort of priority scheme needs to be used in order to 
determine which peripheral should be used to generate the 
automatic 
priority 
schemes are possible. In some embodiments, the user may 
be given configuration options that allow total control over 
this priority selection process. In other embodiments, at least 
as a default priority, often the last peripheral connected will 
be given the highest priority, and the automatic response 
be 
associated with the 
selected, until the user specifies otherwise and/or until the 
last connected peripheral is disconnected. 
last connected peripheral will 
Many different 
response. 
types 
of 
30 p
 40 
Similarly this basic peripheral controlled auto response 
0 scheme may, in some embodiments, apply to all incoming 
messages regardless of who the contact is (e.g. regardless of 
which person or organization calls). In other embodiments, 
at least certain contacts (e.g. boss, wite, friends, parents) or 
other dataset comprising a plurality of dataset items may be 
s given their own automatic response messages that can, again 
according to choice of override scheme, override or not 
override the peripheral associated automatic reply messages.
US 10,841,248 B1 
In some modes, the system may require the user to authorize 
some or all automatic responses by, for example, beeping 
and requesting authorization (e.g. touch, voice authoriza- 
tion, 
etc.) before the system automatically transmits the 
previously automatically selected response. For example, 
the system could audibly announce over a speaker or head- 
set: “text message from wife. press or say OK to send 
automatic response?”, and then listen for an appropriate 
verbal permission, or keypress, before sending the automati- 
cally selected response, or not. 
10 
Put alternatively, in these embodiments, in response to an 
incoming message obtained from at 
least one wireless 
cellular network transceiver, the system will use an auto- 
matically selected and retrieved at 
least one peripheral 
connection linked automatic reply to respond to the incom- 
ing message, but the system need not necessarily automati- 
cally respond to the incoming message. Instead, the system 
can use the previously discussed automatically selected and 
retrieved at least one peripheral connection linked automatic 
reply to tind the suitable reply, but then, before completing 
the response, optionally requesting user permission (e.g. 
user input) authorizing the system to respond to the incom- 
ing message. That is, requesting user input before sending 
the response. So in effect, in this embodiment, the response 
can be any of an automatic response and an after obtaining : 
user permission/input type response. 
not 
absent suitable user authorization, the system will 
respond 0 a connection [rom peripheral GT-19300 with a 
“Please call me—don’t text me—I[’m driving message”, if 
the user so authorizes, the system will take this previously 
automatically selected response message, and send an auto- 
matic reply to the sender accordingly. 
FIG. 2B shows another embodiment of the inventions 
peripheral configuration menu, here showing a wide range 
of alternative Bluetooth peripherals that may be used to 
control the system’s auto answer response messages. | lere 
the auto-answer messages assigned to each peripheral are 
not shown. 
Here, the list shows all currently connected Bluetooth 
devices, 
as other Bluetooth devices that were 
checked and previously connected, but which are not cur- 
rently connected. 
well 
as 
In an alternative embodiment, peripherals that connect by 
other methods, such as hardwire connections (e.g. via an 
analog audio connector jack) may also be shown on this 
screen. 
I'[(3. 213 shows a screenshot of another embodiment of the 
invention’s peripheral configuration menu, here showing a 
wider range of alternative Bluetooth peripherals that may be 
used to control the system’s auto answer response messages. 
Here the auto-answer messages assigned to cach peripheral 
are not shown, 
In general, any priority scheme [or handling all permu- 
tations of peripherals and contacts is contemplated, and the 
software may be configured to allow the user total control 
over this priority scheme. In other embodiments, at least as 
a default to be used in the absence of explicit user priority 
instructions, certain more specific priority schemes may be 
used, and these will be discussed in more detail as follows 
below. 
Note that although, as previously discussed, short range 
wireless connections to peripherals, such as the Bluetooth 
wireless protocol, are frequently used throughout this speci- 
fication as examples of a connection scheme between a 
computerized system (100) and various peripherals, these 
examples are not intended to be limiting. Indeed any con- 
nection scheme that enables the system (100) to exchange 
information or signals with the peripherals is considered to 
be a valid connection scheme according to the invention. 
Thus, for example, even an analog earphone, plugged into an 
analog speaker jack, may be considered to be a peripheral 
that can be used to control an auto reply response message 
so long as the computerized system (100) can detect when 
that particular peripheral is connected, and when it is not. 
"The same is true of connecting a vehicle with a smartphone 
or device dock to the computerized system (100) via a 
physical data connection. 
The following figures and discussions focus on one par- 
ticular embodiment of the invention, here in the form of a 
prototype app intended for a smartphone such as an Apple 
10S smartphone or Android smartphone. Again, these dis- 
cussions are not intended to be limiting. 
FIG. 2A shows a screenshot of one embodiment of the 
invention’s peripheral configuration menu. In this example, 
the various peripherals are called “devices”, and these 
various devices all connect to the computerized system (here 
an Android Smartphone) via wireless Bluetooth™ connec- 
tions. The user can configure the interface in advance with 
suitable permissions so that the invention will produce the 
selected auto responses, or alternatively change permissions 
so that, for example, it the user so desires. the user can turn 
on or turn off the automatic responses quickly depending 
upon the user’s given situation. Thus for example, although 
FIG. 2C shows a screenshot of an Android version of the 
product, in which the system enables the user to configure 
0 which devices, when connected, will trigger an automatic 
response to incoming messages or other interactions, such as 
from an item on a dataset list. The screen also shows the 
various default messages that will be triggered when a 
particular peripheral is connected. Note that in this example, 
the user habitually uses his wired headset when he is on his 
motor cycle, habitually uses his 13luetooth Music Receiver 
when he is skiing, and habitually uses his automobile’s 
(Toyota Prius) built in Bluetooth hands free receiver when 
he is driving. The user can also click a button to turn the 
automatic response on and oll as desired. 
FIG. 3 shows a screenshot of one embodiment of the 
invention’s user interface screen where the user can edit the 
auto answer message that the user wishes to link to 
particular peripheral device or contact. System default auto 
reply messages may also be shown on this interface screen. 
In this scheme, when a user first informs the system that 
a new peripheral device is to be used for auto answering 
purposes, the system will then also provide a device message 
screen (shown in I'IG5. 3) to inform the computerized system 
which default auto answer message to use when that par- 
ticular peripheral device is connected. 
In this particular embodiment, where the computerized 
system is a smartphone with a touch sensitive display screen, 
to change a particular device auto answer message, the user 
may click (e.g. touch) the device's name. When the device 
next connects to the computerized system, the system can 
then set the current auto answer message to be the same as 
that particular device’s auto answer message. That is, the 
system will use whatever message the user had previously 
entered into the “messages” screen in FIG. 3. 
In this particular embodiment, which is oriented to auto 
responding to SMS text messages, to fit within SMS mes- 
sage length, and also to promote the system (at least for a 
free version) the user entered automatic answer message is 
limited to a total length of 136 characters, and 24 characters 
of this total length are further reserved for final non-editable 
at least the freeware form of the
advertising tagline in 
US 10,841,248 B1 
invention. This tagline may optionally be removed or 
replaced with a user edited version in a paid version. 
The user may also be given the option to further link the 
automatic response messages to other devices or other 
contacts. This may be done by configuring the system to 
provide a separate contact screen for this purpose, or by 
configuring the system to allow the user to alter the listing 
of these links below the edit box in the present screen. The 
user may also remove a previously entered automatic 
response message by blanking out the message by back- 
spacing, using a delete button, or other method. 
In some embodiments, because a particular automatic 
response message may be linked to more than one peripheral 
or more than one contact, it will be useful to remind the user 
of this 
a particular 
peripheral-linked automatic response. This sort of warning 
is shown in FIG. 4. 
fact when the user decides to 
edit 
FIG. 4 shows a screenshot of a warning message that may 
be generated when the user attempts to edit an automatic 
reply message that has heen associated with multiple periph- 
erals, multiple contacts or a combination of contacts and/or 
one or more peripheral devices. Thus when opening and 
editing a peripheral linked automatic response message, if 
that particular peripheral automatic response message is also 
linked to any other peripheral or human contact, the system : 
will show a popup alert warning the user to the effect that 
“This message is linked 0 one or more devices or contacts. 
it will affect all linked devices and contacts.” 
If you edit it, 
In this embodiment, after the user overrides the above 
(optional) warning, the use can then set the default auto 
answer message to be used when this particular peripheral is 
connected to the computerized system. Thus, for example, 
the user can configure the system so that if the user’s 
smartphone (computerized system) detects that it 
is con- 
nected to the user’s Bluetooth speaker phone (which is 
located in the user’s automobile), the default auto answer 
message can be of the type: “Please don’t text me, I'm 
driving”. 
10 
FIG. 6 shows a screenshot of the user’s contact list. In 
some embodiments, cach individual (and usually human or 
business) contact may also be given contact specific cus- 
tomized automated response message that in turn can be 
configured to vary according to which particular peripheral 
is connected to the computerized device. In other embodi- 
ments, the system can be configured so that the type of 
connected peripheral determines if the automated response 
message will be transmitted or not. 
As l'lG. 6 shows, in some embodiments, the system may 
list all contacts in the user’s address book, and optionally 
select certain contacts to add to a “do not auto respond to 
texts from this contact™ blacklist. In some embodiments, the 
user may also select (e.g. click on) a particular contact to set 
an override automatic response message that should be used 
to respond to that particular contact. Such contact specific 
override responses may then, for example, override any 
peripheral specific default automatic response that would be 
0 used otherwise. In some embodiments, the system may 
request user permission before sending out the automatic 
response message. 
As an example, an employee may have set an informal 
and peripheral specific “Don’t bug me Bro’ I'm driving” 
automatic text response message that will normally operate 
the 
whenever the employee’s smartphone detects 
employee’s smartphone is connected to 
the employee's 
automobile’s Bluetooth speakerphone. 
that 
However if the employee may also set various contact 
specific overrides to this so that if the employee’s smart- 
phone detects from the contact list that it is the employee’s 
boss or parents that are texting while the employee’s smart- 
phone is connected to the automobile, the system will then 
select a more formal text response such as: “Presently 
driving—will respond quickly when safe”. 
Thus in this scheme, a contact list specific automatic 
response may be set to always override a generic peripheral 
specific automatic response. Other prioritization schemes 
The system can also be configured to be flexible, so that 
a previously sel automatic answer message can be overrid- 
den by the user, such as by going (0 a messages screen (see 
FIG. 5A) and checking or entering in a different message 
automatic reply message. Alternatively, the user can also use 
a suitable control screen, such as the FIG. 5A messages 
screen, to go back and edit the message configuration screen 
such as shown in FIG. 3. 
FIG. 5A shows a screenshot of an automated response 
message display screen that allows the user to easily pick 
and choose which automated response messages to set as the 
present default automated response message. [lere the cur- 
rently active default automatic response message is checked, 
and only one default has been presently entered into the 
system. However the 
other automatic 
responses messages via the “Add a New Message” com- 
mand at the bottom of the screen. Once the user has added 
an additional message, the user can then select it (e.g. touch 
the appropriate touchscreen control) to make it active (i.e. 
set as an alternative current default message). 
enter 
user 
can 
FIG. 5B shows a more populated automated message 
response display screen that allows the user to configure 
automatic 
which, 
response messages, the user wants a particular device (here 
the user's Toyota Prius’ built in Bluetooth hands free speak- 
erphone) to use as the default automatic response message. 
previously 
various 
entered 
among 
o may also be used. 
Note that although in 
this example. the contact list 
selected automatic response will override the peripheral 
device specific automatic response, the peripheral specific 
automatic response trigger may be set to still be operative. 
That is, the system may be configured so that a particular 
contact list selected automatic response will only be selected 
if a contact (e.g. text message) is received from that par- 
ticular contact AND the system also detects that the par- 
ticular peripheral associated with generating a “driving” 
trigger is present. Alternatively. the system can be config- 
a peripheral is 
a response is only sent if 
ured so 
connected, or if manual mode (manual override) is active. 
Thus in general, the system may use the presence or 
absence of specilic peripherals as 
a trigger to lransmil 
certain pre-selected automatic responses (or not). Which 
pre-selected automatic responses are then transmitted in 
response to that trigger may then depend on which contact 
generated the incoming message (e.g. activated a trigger) 
and then on the user set logic as to which automatic response 
to send out (e.g. the contact specific automatic response for 
that trigger, or a default response for that trigger) to use. 
that 
There is thus a potential matrix of contact and peripheral 
automatic response messages tor all combinations of periph- 
erals and contacts, as is shown in ‘lables 1A and 113 below:
60 
US 10,841,248 B1 
12 
11 
TABLE 1A 
Fimbodiment. 1 
Peripheral 1 
(car) 
Peripheral 2 (headsel) 
No peripheral default 
Contact A (boss) 
Contact B (friend) 
Contact C (cx-girlfriend) 
All others (default) 
“Will respond soon™ 
“Later dude” 
“bug off’ 
“Driving...” 
Jorking hard boss™ 
“Call me bro” 
“bug off” 
“Busy...” 
“Call me later” 
“Sleeping or dead” 
“bug off” 
“Can’t respond now” 
TABLE 1B 
Embodiment 2 
Peripheral 1 (car) 
Peripheral 2 (headset) 
No peripheral default 
Contact A (boss) 
Contact B (friend) 
Contact C (ex-girlfriend) 
All others (default) 
“Working hard boss™ “Working hard boss™ 
“Call me bro” 
“bug oft™ 
“Driving...” 
“Call me bro” 
“bug off” 
“Busy...” 
“Working hard boss™ 
“Call me bro” 
“hug off” 
“Can’t respond now” 
In some embodiments, peripherals with no pre-set custom 
messages will be given a default message. 
Alternatively, the matrix of automatic responses messages 
shown in table 1A or 1B may be set 0 give no automatic 
response at all if no peripherals are connected. 
In some embodiments. the system can also be configured 
to respond to certain tags or flags or metadata encoded in 
various incoming messages. 
30 
40 
l'or example, an incoming message may additionally 
contain an identifier informing the system of the type and/or 
intention of the incoming message. This can be a priority 
tag, such as a tag or data or metadata informing the user that 
(e.g. 
the message has unusually high or low priority 
“urgent”, or ‘spam”) or that the message is of the 
sort 
deemed to be a possible distraction. When used in conjunc- 
tion with the invention, the system may use this information 
to further select between the previously discussed plurality 
of response messages, or to choose not to send an automatic 
TCSpONSE. 
Consider the 
situation where a peripheral connected 
device receives a SMS message which is further encoded 
with an identifier to reinforce that the type of message could 
be overly distracting to the operator of a vehicle (such as an 
“advertisement” or “spam” tag), without providing any 
compensating benefit. According to the invention, the auto- 
reply software can also be configured to use this “lag” 
information, in conjunction with peripheral connection sta- 
tus, to further determine if an automatic reply should be 
issued or not. Here an “urgent” tag might override a previous 
automalic reply command, while a “spam™ tag might over- 
ride a previous command 10 not issue automatic replies. 
Other types of tags or “metadata” may also be used to give 
the system additional information as to if to automatically 
reply to a given message, or not. 
As another example, consider the case where a peripheral 
connected device receives a social media message further 
encoded with an identifier indicating that no automatic 
response should be sent. This identifier can be used to 
override a previously set command to always issue auto- 
matic replies when that peripheral connected device is 
connected. 
tag, or metadata) to select whether or not to retrieve (and/or 
send) at least one peripheral linked automatic reply. 
I'[(3. 7 shows how, in some embodiments, the user can, for 
each individual contact, edit a particular customized auto- 
mated response message that will be used according to 
which particular peripheral is connected to the computerized 
device. 
In some embodiments, after selecting a particular indi- 
vidual or organization from the contact list, the user can then 
edit the automatic response to be selected tor that particular 
contact, This is shown in FIG. 7, which shows how the user 
can set the message to be used when responding to texts 
from this contact. As before, the system may generate an 
optional warning message il the particular message being 
edited is also linked to other peripherals or contacts. Here as 
well, the user can either set the system in advance to use a 
previously selected automatic response to reply, or alterna- 
tively, the user can retain more control by turning this option 
on and off during use as desired. 
In addition to the various app screens shown here, an app 
or other software according to the invention may have other 
user interface screens as well. For example, such an app or 
other software may also have a home screen or general 
configuration screen. This home or configuration screen may 
have, for example, various additional displays and functions 
such as: 
A checkbox/on-off control to turn the app on (where it will 
50 
usually then run in the background) or ofl. 
Click-on headings to allow the user to quickly jump to 
other app screens with corresponding names or func- 
tionality that matches the heading. 
Click-on upgrade notices. Here, for example, if the app is 
being distributed as different free versions, as well as 
premium versions with more functions, the user can use 
an upgrade option to jump to another app screen that 
describes various extra features that may be provided 
by a premium version of the app. 
A showing of various default system settings, such as 
first line of the app’s current 
showing at least the 
default automatic response message. 
60 
Use lixamples 
Thus in this embodiment, the reply software can be 
further configured to use an incoming message identifier (or 
In the following examples, assume that the computerized 
system is a smartphone such as an Apple iPhone or Android
US 10,841,248 B1 
13 
smartphone, the user has downloaded and installed an app 
that implements the invention’s methods, and that the user 
is then using the system to auto respond to incoming Short 
Message Service (SMS) messages (text messages). 
Note that even it the invention’s software is located 
entirely in the underlying operating system, rather than as an 
“app” that runs on top of the operating system, the inven- 
tion’s software is 
still going to be implemented as one or 
more modules of the operating system, and will typically 
make use of other operating system services (e.g. wireless 
stack services, user interface services, etc.) Thus in this 
discussion, the term “app” should be understood as referring 
to the software that implements the invention as described 
herein, rather than the particular location of the software. 
It is less cumbersome, however, to use the case where the 
invention is being implemented in the form of an app 
running on a smartphone (e.g. as software running on the 
smartphone’s processor or processors) in our discussions, 
rather than to always call out all options. Thus often in this 
disclosure, the invention will be referred to in the alternative 
as the “application” or “app” for short. 
Using 
specific 
Bluetooth connected peripherals as 
example; the computerized system (smartphone) may be 
configured to respond to an incoming SMS message as 
follows: 
Case 1: application (app) is not active—nothing (no auto 
response) happens 
Case 2: application is active, but none of the selected 
Bluetooth (BT) peripheral devices is 
in range—nothing 
happens (alternatively a default no-peripheral auto response 
may be provided). 
Case 3: application is active and one or more of the 
selected Bluetooth peripheral devices is 
in range and/or 
connected, and the SMS sender is also listed as a contact in 
the smartphone’s directory with a contact specific response 
message assighed—then the system, if previously autho- 
rized by the user, will auto reply with the user assigned 
contact specific message. 
Case 4: application is active and one or more of the 
selected BT devices is in range and/or connected and the 
a contact with no response 
SMS sender is unknown or 
message assigned—then the system, if previously autho- 
rized by the user, will auto reply with current active periph- 
eral specific message. 
In this context, the “current active message” may be 
defined as follows: 
Initially. upon setup, the first auto reply message entered 
by the user (e.g. —“message 17) can be initially selected by 
the system to be the current active message (at least until the 
user changes this), and the text of this first message can he 
the text of the current active message. In the case where only 
one auto reply message is being used, then the first auto 
reply message will be the only auto reply message. 
As the user adds one or more additional (and optional) 
custom messages (and optionally checks oll these mes- 
sages), whatever auto reply message the user selects will be 
used by the system as the current active message. 
If 
a selected peripheral, such as 
a Bluetooth device 
peripheral comes into range (i.e. connects with) of the 
computerized device, and if this particular peripheral does 
not have a default message set vet, then the fact that the 
peripheral is now communicating with the computerized 
device will have no effect on the auto reply message. In this 
case. the current active auto reply message will remain 
unchanged from whatever the last active message was. 
Alternatively, the system may be configured so that if no 
automatic 
invention’s 
connected, 
peripherals 
the 
are 
14 
response software may be bypassed, and instead, the com- 
pulerized system’s generic default automatic reply message 
(assuming that one has been previously specified) may he 
provided instead. 1lowever if a selected peripheral with a 
previously specified default auto reply message is connected 
to the computerized device, then the peripheral specific auto 
reply message then becomes the current active message. 
Similarly, if a second (or third) selected peripheral with a 
previously specilied auto reply message is connected to the 
computerized device, it may be convenient (as previously 
discussed) to configure the invention software so that the 
auto reply associated with the last connected peripheral is 
chosen as the current active message. Alternatively, and also 
as previously discussed, the invention may allow the user to 
configure a peripheral priority order in which the auto reply 
message associated with the peripheral with the highest 
priority is automatically chosen as the current active mes- 
sage. 
To change the current active auto reply messages, the user 
0 may also view a message configuration screen, such as FIG. 
5, and select a dillerent auto reply message to be the current 
active auto reply message. 
In some “last connected peripheral device controls” type 
embodiments, a peripheral, upon connection with the com- 
puterized device (e.g. smartphone) will set the active auto 
reply message upon connection (i.e. coming within range if 
a Bluetooth connected peripheral). How- 
the peripheral is 
ever in these embodiments, it 
act of peripheral 
the 
connection itself that determines the auto reply, at least if the 
user has previously authorized this type of operation. That is, 
the continued connection of previously connected peripher- 
als may not control the status of the active auto reply 
message, because the auto reply associated with the last 
connected peripheral dominates. 
is 
Even here, of course, the user can always change the 
active auto reply message manually by simply bringing up 
the list of messages (see FIG. 5) and setting another message 
as the currently active auto-reply message. 
Pscudo Code Examples 
In the following examples, certain aspects of the function 
of smartphone app software that implements certain embodi- 
ments of the invention are shown using pseudo code. Note 
that these pseudo code examples primarily focus on the 
selection of the current response message, rather than on 
details of the response mode activation process. 
// $message should persist between sessions and reboots 
global $message="Please call me—don’t text me—I'm 
driving—Sent from <device’s phone number> hy 'lext 
Deflector”; // init on app install only 
device::on_ connect( ) 
if (Sself—linked_ message) 
$message=Sscl[—linked_message; 
device::on_ disconnect( ) 
if 
($self—linked message 
and 
$message 
 $sel- 
f—linked_message) 
// Fall back to global default message; 
$message=Smessages—default; 
controller::messages_screen::on_check( ) 
// "This is the main Messages screen (not the device or 
contact select variant) 
if (1$self—device and !$self—contact) 
$message=Sself—=messages—>selected; 
// This is the Messages screen for a specific Contact
US 10,841,248 B1 
15 
elseif ($self—contact) 
16 
by sensing and linking to your in-car handsfree device 
$self—contact—linked_message=Sself—messages—selectgBluetooth or wired headset) and automatically responds to 
any incoming texts, notifying the sender that the driver is 
unavailable. 
// This is the Messages screen for a specific Device 
elseif ($self—=device) 
$self—device—=linked_message=$self—messages—selested; No data is collected, GPS services are not used, and 
sms::on receive( ) 
if ($self—sender—linked_message) 
$self—reply($self—=sender—linked_message) 
else 
$self—=reply($message); 
1 I 
Subsequent Publication and Making Available to 
the 
Public 
On Jul. 20, 2013, the inventors, under the name of “Suite 
B Media Inc.” published a first version of the invention, 
entitled Text Deflector as an Android app on the Google Play 
store. They also publicized the invention on their Twitter 
feed at: https:/twitter.convtextdetlector 
On Sep. 1, 2013, the inventors published a YouTube video 
describing the 'lext Deflector system in operation as “lext 
Deflector— The Automated Autoresponder” at: https://ww- 
w.youtube.com/watch?v=hucE17dFvJc 
1 =
On Nov. 26, 2013, the inventors published a description 
of the improved version of the invention at http://www.bike- : 
php ?newsID=74286. 
land.org/mews-story. 
This press release stated: 
“Announcing Text 
(www.textdeflector- 
Deflector 2.0 
com), the smart phone app designed to provide a safer 
driving environment for everyone. Text Deflector is a free 
app (with no ads) that’s designed to take the impulse to 
respond to texts away from drivers so they can focus on the 
task at hand . 
. driving safely. 
Text Deflector’s patent pending technology works by 
sensing and linking to your in-car handsfree device (13lu- 
etooth or wired headset) and automatically responds for you 
without any user input whatsoever to any incoming texts. 
Text Deflector notifies the sender that the driver is unavail- 
able and optionally requests that the sender call instead. 
Text Deflector 2.0 not only responds to SMS (text) 
messages while you're driving, now it will also respond to 
WS (picture and video) messages so you don’t get distracted 
by any pictures sent to you when you're traveling down the 
Interstate.” 
“This is an app that should come pre-installed in every 
phone for the safety of the driving community,” says Suite 
B Media’s director of marketing, Loralee Fultz (Hajdu). 
“Text Deflector is simple to use—just launch the app and 
assign it to any hands-free device and it’s ready to go.” 
‘The newer 2.0 version of the application was described as 
having the new features: 
Responds to both SMS & MMS 
System Tray Icon shows when App is active 
Flood Control Filter—stops responding to repeated texts 
Ignores Unknown Numbers and new Check All Contacts 
option 
Maintains a record of auto responses 
All New Interface/Look 
Help and FAQ 
On Dec. 
17, 2013, the inventors then published an 
upgraded 2.0 version of Text Deflector on the Google play 
store. 
As described on the Google play store, "lest Deflector 2.0 
there’s no additional drain on your battery.” 
The inventors further described the system as being 
completely automatic, not locking the user to 
a service 
provider or carrier, and sensing your peripheral devices 
automatically with no manual input. Other advantages listed 
were that the system was not GI’S based or motion based, 
maintains user privacy, and allows users lo import contacts 
for customization. Additional advantages are that the system 
does not cause additional battery drain. 
A premium (paid for) version of Text Deflector also 
allows users to provide custom response messages. select 
multiple paired Bluetooth devices, assign a custom message 
to each Bluetooth device, and assign a custom message to 
each of the user’s contacts. The premium version also offers 
a manual mode that could be enabled via a timer (useful if 
a connected peripheral is not available). 
In some embodiments, the invention may be further 
configured so that the system may further use time of day or 
date as another auto response option. 
Preventing Distracted Driving 
be a 
In some embodiments, the invention may also 
method of using device connection status, such as 
the 
connection status of a Bluetooth peripheral device, to reduce 
the risks of distracted driving (or other operation of any 
other type of equipment or method of conveyance) and 
perform other functions. Here, the invention operates by 
managing auto response replies to data on a computerized 
system, such as Smartphone incoming messages while the 
Smartphone’s user is driving. As usual, these Smartphones 
will generally be equipped with at least one computer 
processor, memory, display, cellular network transceiver, 
Bluetooth transceiver, Smartphone software (e.g. Android, 
10S, Blackberry, Windows mobile software, and the like), as 
well as the inventions automatic response software. 
In this embodiment, the peripheral will generally be a 
Bluetooth peripheral that is normally associated with the 
vehicle that the user is driving, or other equipment that the 
user is using. Although this Bluetooth peripheral may be a 
built-in automobile Bluetooth peripheral, other options are 
also possible. Here, for example, Bluetooth peripherals that 
are normally kept in the vehicle, such as visor mounted 
Bluetooth 
Bluetooth GPS 
devices, and the like may also be used. As is standard for 
Bluetooth peripherals, each Bluetooth device will have its 
own peripheral identification code. 
speakerphones, 
after-market 
Bluetooth peripherals 
Ilere, when the user enters the vehicle (or interacts with 
other equipment), the Smartphone (or other computerized 
system) will detect the presence of various vehicle (or other 
equipment) associated 
other 
devices), and form a connection, such as a wireless Blu- 
etooth connection with them. The invention’s software can 
then, for example, detect this connection, determine that a 
vehicle associated Bluetooth device has been connected 
using the peripheral (or other device) identification code, 
and (for example) assign at least one Bluetooth vehicle 
associated peripheral linked automatic reply to this at least 
one Bluetooth peripheral identification code. This can be 
saved in memory. 
(or 
was described as: 
“lext 
Deflector 2.0 automatically 
your 
incoming texts (both SMS and WS) while you're driving and 
does it safely, without any user input. Text Deflector works 
responds to 
‘Thus, when a particular device is connected using a 
s method of connectivity. the system may use replay sottware 
running on at least one processor, and at least one device 
identification code that is individually identifiable by the
US 10,841,248 B1 
17 
computerized system, to assign at least one (and often a 
plurality of) device linked automatic replies to the at least 
one device identification code. 
‘Thus when a particular vehicle associated 3luetooth 
peripheral is wirelessly connected to the Smartphone, the 
invention’s automatic reply software will use the vehicle 
associated Bluetooth peripherals peripheral code Lo retrieve 
that particular automatic reply from memory. Thus when in 
response 0 incoming messages (e.g. SMS messages, MMS 
messages) the system can then retrieve the relevant auto- 
matic reply from memory, and (at least if previously autho- 
rized by the user) use it 
to automatically respond to the 
particular incoming message. 
The system can also be contigured to configure automatic 
replies to other types of incoming messages as well, such as 
incoming video messages (e.g. FaceTime calls, Google Duo 
calls, and the like). 
Silent operation: Although the following silent operation 
mode can be used for many different embodiments of the 
invention, it will often be desirable to further configure the 
automalic reply software to mule sounds produced by the 
Smarlphone in response 10 various incoming messages and/ 
or the various automatic replies when the system determines 
that the user may be driving. Here, various methods may be 
used to determine if the user is driving, including input from : 
motion sensors, sound profiles, triangulation versus various 
cellular tower transceivers, detecting differences in local 
WiFi systems, and the like. 
18 
may be used in conjunction with a smartphone configured to 
detect a work office related WiFi system. Here the smart- 
phone can be configured so that detection of the work WiFi 
signal triggers a “Can’t chat, I'm at work” type auto 
response for either incoming calls or text messages. 
Similarly, other types of signals can also be used to trigger 
the invention. ‘These other signals can include near field 
communication (NI'C) signals, Bluetooth beacons, 13lu- 
etooth location services, the previously discussed WiFi 
signals, and so on. These signals may be located in the 
previously discussed work environments, and other areas 
such as theatres (cinemas), concert venues, schools, facto- 
ries, hospilals, churches, and the like. 
In some embodiments, the invention may also be config- 
ured to monitor other parameters, such as ambient noise 
levels, and allow the user to configure the auto response 
according to various user set parameters. For example, the 
user may set the invention to auto respond to incoming 
messages when the ambient noise levels are overly high. 
0 Alternatively, the user may wish to configure the system so 
that if the ambient noise is unusually quiet, then the system 
should do a silent auto response. 
Trademarks: Bluetooth® is a registered trademark of the 
Bluetooth SIG, Inc. 
The invention claimed is: 
1. 
A method of using peripheral connection status to select 
between at least one response replies (0 data on a handheld 
computerized device, said method comprising: 
Disabling autoresponse/ignoring certain incoming mes- 
sages: Some telecommunications service providers routinely 
provide “new voicemail received” notices. Although some 
services routinely label these “new voicemail received mes- 
sages” with the SMS identification or other identification of 
the caller that provided the voicemail, others do not. Other 
services, for example, label these “new voicemail received 
messages” with the service provider's set 1D. 
In order to have the invention distinguish between these 
two types of situations, it can be useful to further configure 
the system to check incoming messages versus a defined a 
text string or pattern. Alternatively, metadata associated with 
the incoming message may also be examined as well. If this 
defined text string or pattern or metadata value is detected, 
the system can be configured to automatically disable the 
system’s auto response functions for these types of incoming 
messages. So, for example, if the incoming message con- 
tains key terms such as “voicemail”, then the system can he 
instructed to ignore the incoming message, rather than to 
auto respond to the message. 
in 
apps, 
other 
embodiments, 
Use as a Standard Part of a Smartphone Operating System 
this disclosure, the various embodiments 
Although in 
disclosed herein have been in the form of aliermarket, user 
installed, 
methods 
described herein may instead be implemented as part of the 
standard smartphone operating system. In this later embodi- 
ment, the invention’s features can thus be automatically 
provided for all smartphones using these operating systems. 
Because of the major burden that distracted driving places 
on society in the form of loss of life and injury, the invention 
(e.g. the “reply software”) could in turn help save lives if it 
was made a standard component of a smartphone OS. 
the 
OTHER EMBODIMENTS 
In other embodiments, the invention may he used in 
situations where using the presence of a connection to 
trigger a broader variety of different auto responses is 
desired. For example, in other embodiments, the invention 
30 
obtaining a handheld computerized device, and at least 
one peripheral device capable of connecting with said 
handheld computerized device; 
said handheld computerized device comprising at least 
one processor, handheld computerized device memory, 
at least one wireless cellular network transceiver, and 
reply software running on said at least one processor; 
each said at least one peripheral device having a device 
identification code that is individually identifiable by 
said handheld computerized device as a result of deter- 
mining said status of said at least one peripheral device 
connection to said handheld computerized device; 
using said reply sollware and said at least one processor 
to assign at least one peripheral device linked automatic 
replies to at least one peripheral device identification 
code, and storing said at least one peripheral device 
linked automatic replies in said handheld computerized 
device memory; 
wherein when said 
least one peripheral device is 
connected to said handheld computerized device, said 
reply software will determine said at least one periph- 
eral device’s said peripheral device identification code, 
and use said at least one peripheral device identification 
code to select and retrieve at least one peripheral linked 
automatic reply from said at least one peripheral device 
linked automatic replies [rom said handheld comput- 
crized device memory; and 
at 
wherein in response to an incoming message obtained 
from said at least one wireless cellular network trans- 
ceiver, using an automatically selected and retrieved at 
least one peripheral connection linked automatic reply 
to respond to said incoming message; 
and wherein said peripheral device is different from a 
device transmitting said incoming message. 
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said reply software 
further comprise a list of at least one dataset: 
further assigning at least one automated reply and a reply 
priority to at least one item on said list of at least one 
dataset;
60 
63 
US 10,841,248 B1 
19 
assigning a reply priority to said at least one peripheral 
device; 
determining a relative priority between said peripheral 
device linked automatic replies and contact assigned 
automated replies; 
and using said relative priority to determine if an inter- 
action from an item on said list of at least one dataset 
should be automatically managed by either said periph- 
eral device linked reply or a reply linked to said list of 
at least one dataset. 
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said handheld com- 
10 
pulerized device is a smartphone, or tablet computer. 
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said peripheral device 
connects to said handheld computerized device using a wire 
or any other physical connection. 
5S. The method of claim 1, wherein said peripheral device 
connects to said handheld computerized device using any of 
a Bluetooth, WiFi, or other wireless connection. 
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said 
at least one 
peripheral connection linked automatic reply differs accord- 
ing to an item in a dataset that sent said incoming message, 
and a peripheral connection [1D of a peripheral device last 
connected to said handheld computerized device. 
20 
7. The method of claim 1, further used to help prevent 
distracted driving or operation of any other type of equip- : 
ment or any method of conveyance; 
wherein said at least one peripheral device is an equip- 
ment associated peripheral device; 
wherein when said handheld computerized device is 
brought in close proximity with said equipment asso- 
ciated peripheral device, said reply software automati- 
cally detects 
said equipment associated peripheral 
device, and automatically configures said handheld 
computerized device to automatically respond to 
at 
least one incoming message with a response message 
that is customized for an originator of said at least one 
incoming message. 
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said incoming message 
is any of an SMS message, an MMS message, or any type 
of communication including any communication with pic- 
ture or video content, notification, social media interaction, 
alert or other type of incoming video content. 
9. The method of claim 1, further used to reduce risk of 
distracted operation of any given piece of equipment by 
using a peripheral connection status of a peripheral device to 
manage auto response replies to incoming information or 
communications while a user of said handheld computerized 
device is also utilizing said equipment. 
10. The method of claim 1, wherein said handheld com- 
puterized device further comprises a Bluetooth transceiver 
and a graphical user interface, said at least one peripheral 
device comprises a Bluetooth peripheral device, and said 
peripheral device identification code comprises a Bluetooth 
peripheral device identification code. 
40 
 i] 
20 
cally selected and retrieved at least one peripheral connec- 
tion linked automatic reply to automatically respond Lo said 
incoming message. 
14. The method of claim 1, wherein in response to an 
incoming message obtained from said at least one wireless 
cellular network transceiver, using an automatically selected 
and retrieved at 
least one peripheral connection linked 
automatic reply and further requesting handheld computer- 
ized device user input belore automatically responding to 
said incoming message. 
15. The method of claim 1, wherein said reply software 
further 
select 
an incoming message identifier 
whether or not to retrieve said at least one peripheral linked 
uses 
to 
. automatic reply. 
16. A handheld computerized device, comprising: 
al 
least one processor, handheld computerized device 
memory, at least one wireless cellular network trans- 
ceiver, and reply software; 
said handheld computerized device configured to indi- 
vidually identify at least one peripheral device having 
a peripheral device identification code as a result of 
determining a status of said at least one peripheral 
device connection to 
said handheld computerized 
device; 
said reply software, and said at 
least one processor 
configured to assign at least one peripheral device 
linked automatic reply to at least one peripheral device 
identification code, and store said at least one periph- 
eral device linked automatic reply in said handheld 
computerized device memory; 
said handheld computerized device and said reply soft- 
ware configured so that when said at least one periph- 
eral device is connected to said handheld computerized 
device, said reply software determines said at least one 
peripheral device identification code, said peripheral 
device’s identification code not being a telephone num- 
ber, and uses said at least one peripheral device iden- 
tification code to select and retrieve at least one periph- 
cral linked automatic reply [rom said at least one 
peripheral device linked automatic replies [rom said 
handheld computerized device memory; and 
said handheld computerized device and said reply soft- 
ware are configured to use an automatically selected 
and retrieved at least one peripheral connection linked 
automatic reply to respond to an incoming message 
obtained from said at least one wireless cellular net- 
work transceiver; and wherein said peripheral device is 
different from a device transmitting said incoming 
message. 
17. The device of claim 16 further configured to help 
prevent distracted driving or vehicle operation; 
wherein said at least one peripheral device is 
a vehicle 
associated Bluetooth peripheral device; 
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said handheld com- 
puterized device further comprises a graphical user inter- 
face; 
5 b
further using said graphical user interface to assign a 
plurality of peripheral device linked automatic replies 
to at least one peripheral device identification code. 
12. The method of claim 1, wherein said reply software 
further selects and retrieves said at least one peripheral 
linked automatic reply based on the peripheral device iden- 
tification code of the last connected peripheral device. 
13. The method of claim 1, wherein in response to an 
incoming message obtained from said at least one wireless 
cellular network transceiver, further using said automati- 
60 
63 
said reply software further configured so that when said 
handheld computerized device is brought in close prox- 
imity with said vehicle associated Bluetooth peripheral 
device, said reply software is configured to automati- 
cally detect said vehicle associated Bluetooth periph- 
eral device, and automatically configures said handheld 
computerized device to automatically select a response 
to 
at least one incoming message with at least one 
Bluetooth peripheral device linked automatic reply 
from said handheld computerized device memory. 
18. ‘The device of claim 16, further configured to help 
prevent distracted driving or operation of any other type of 
equipment;
22
US 10,841,248 B1 
21 
wherein said at least one peripheral device is an equip- 
ment associated peripheral device; 
wherein when reply software is further configured so that 
when said handheld computerized device is brought in 
close proximity with said equipment associated periph- 
eral device, said reply software is configured to auto- 
matically detect said equipment associated peripheral 
device, and automatically configures said handheld 
computerized device to automatically respond to 
at 
least one incoming message with a response message 
that is customized for an originator of said at least one 
incoming message. 
19. The device of claim 16, wherein said peripheral device 
said handheld computerized 
is configured to connect to 
device using a wire or any other physical connection. 
20. The device of claim 16, wherein said peripheral device 
is configured to connects to said handheld computerized 
device using any of a Bluetooth, WiFi, or other wireless 
connection. 
21. The device of claim 16, wherein said handheld com- 
puterized device and said reply software are configured to 
use an automatically selected and retrieved at least one 
peripheral connection linked automatic reply to automati- 
cally respond to an incoming message obtained from said at 
least one wireless cellular network transceiver. 
22. The device of claim 16, wherein said handheld com- 
pulerized device and said reply sofiware are configured to 
use an automatically selected and retrieved at least one 
peripheral connection linked automatic reply, and handheld 
computerized device user input, to automatically respond to 
an incoming message obtained from said at least one wire- 
less cellular network transceiver. 
